Hello everyone and welcome back to English Pod, my name is Marko, and my name is Katherine,
so Marko today we're talking about rent and housing. Right, we're actually going to be moving,
we're going to be going to a new apartment or a new house, and so we're going to look at all the
words related to this because sometimes it can be a real hassle, right? It can be really difficult.
Absolutely, but you love moving, right? You are timing how much you love moving your stuff,
negotiating a new league. Well, like the negotiation of the lease, but not the moving aspect.
I don't think anyone likes. Actually, I do like it at times because then you can just throw away
so many things that you have no need for and you wouldn't throw away unless you move.
So let's go check out today's dialogue to find out what happens to the characters.
Okay, that's fine, bye. What happened? That's it. I leases up. I have to move. What? Why? Can't you renew it?
The owner apparently is selling this place to make way for the construction of a parking lot.
Well, I can help you pack. We should start looking for a new place for you, ASAP.
I think I might move in with my parents for a couple of months until I can find something.
You know how hard it is to find a decent place around here. I'm going to have to put most of my
stuff in storage for a while. Well, let me know if there's anything I can do to help out.
Actually, would you mind looking after my pet tarantula and snake for a couple of weeks?
Sure.
All right, we're back. So, well, it's not much of a big deal. I guess if you have your parents
nearby, you can just move back in with your parents. Easier said than that. True. True. We'll get to that
in a little bit, but let's take a look at the words that are used today in language takeaway.
Language takeaway. All right, so this first one is an important one because generally, when you're
looking for a house or an apartment, there are two things you can do. You can buy a house or you can
lease a house or apartment. So, lease here, Marco. It's basically to rent, right? It's a contract where
you agree to pay a monthly or a quarterly fee for using that house or apartment. So, do you own
your apartment or do you lease it? No, I'll mine, I lease. Yeah, I'm not a home owner yet. Right. So,
owning a home is a lot more expensive at one kind of period where you have to just pay in and you
maybe a mortgage, but leasing is just a monthly fee, like you said. So, in this case, they had to
leave because their lease was expired. Exactly. So, you can, at the end of a lease, do one of
two things. You can stop and you can find a new apartment or you can renew your lease. All right,
and that's our next word to renew your lease basically means to, to continue, to continue.
And this is actually a good word because it can be used with a con any contract because really
a lease is a kind of contract. And so, I can say, I renewed my job contract or maybe a magazine
subscription. Yeah. You renewed your magazine subscription. It's a, it's a way of saying that you've
committed to paying for the next six months or one year. Okay. Well, and after that, as we said,
the person decided to move in with the parents. So, move in. Moving, what we can say, he moved
his car. He put it in a different place, but to move in is actually to, to change houses or
the change apartments. And you're, you're literally moving your things and you're moving your
clothes and you're moving into a new home. So, you're living in a new place. So, in this case,
this person is going to live with the parents move in. All right. And our next word is when you
have to move, you have to pack. Okay. So, you can pack a lot of things. In this case, you're
packing a box with all of your bowlongings, your books and your pillows and all that,
but you can also pack a suitcase or you can pack luggage. So, packing is putting things into
something so that you can move them. So, you can carry them or take them somewhere. Exactly. So,
in this case, you have to pack your things, put them in boxes to take them to your new home.
And our last word is an acronym when you said ASAP. All right. SNAP SNAP, come on, ASAP, Marco.
ASAP. Describe this for us quickly. All right. So, ASAP is an acronym for as soon as possible.
Okay. See you often. See this in the office on envelopes or emails. So, please respond
ASAP ASAP. This means, please respond right away. As soon as you can, as soon as possible.
All right. So, five great word is that we've just taken a look at. Let's listen to our dialogue again.
And we'll be right back. Okay. That's fine. Bye.
What happened? That's it. I leases up. I have to move. What? Why? Can't you renew it?
The owner apparently is selling this place to make way for the construction of a parking lot.
Well, I can help you pack. We should start looking for a new place for you ASAP.
I think I might move in with my parents for a couple of months until I can find something.
You know how hard it is to find a decent place around here. I'm going to have to put most of my
stuff in storage for a while. Well, let me know if there's anything I can do to help out.
Actually, would you mind looking after my pet tarantula and snake for a couple of weeks?
Uh, sure.
All right. We're back and we have a couple of different phrases for you. So let's look at those
now in fluency builder. Fluency builder. Our first one's a little bit unusual. We heard the phrase
my lease is up. So, Mark, let's talk about this phrase to be up. All right. So, if something is up
as in this case, the lease, it means it's expired. It's finished, right? So, it's over.
You can also say our time is up. Right. If we have a meeting. So, that's all the time I have.
Time to go away. Time is up. Very good. So, it's always related to time or maybe a contract
is in this case. Are your lease is up? So, it means over or finished. All right. So, moving on to our
second phrase. To make way for, all right. So, this is a great one. This often makes me think of
kings and queens in the old days as they make way for the king. So, you have to get out of the way.
Yeah, get out of the way or to clear some space for them to move because there's too much
stuff in the way. And so, in this case, the owner of the apartment with the guy that was living in
is trying to make some space or make way for a parking lot. Right. So, he's basically going to
sell the building or house and build a parking lot instead. So, they are making way for the new parking
lot. They're clearing space. And this is actually really sad because my childhood home,
they destroyed to make way for a larger ugly building house. It happens all the time. Now, they're
making way for malls and the big buildings and all the little houses are destroyed. And,
well, moving on to our last phrase, the person asked the friend if he would mind looking after
the pet snake and torrentula. I would mind. You don't like snakes or torrentula.
I don't mind having a dog that I don't live with them. So, would you mind how this is a nice way
to start a sentence if you want to ask for a favor, right? Exactly. So, here's an alternative.
Hey, Marco. Can you do this for me? I could, maybe. I could say, Marco, would you mind doing this for
me? It sounds it's more polite. It is more polite and it's a little bit gentler. Yeah.
So, it's nice. It's a nice way of asking someone for a favor. Exactly. And that's why this is funny
because the favor is not like, would you mind watching my kitty? The favor is, would you mind
watching my poison as pets? Right. All right. So, would you mind it? But, in the end, the person agreed.
So, it works, right? It does work. So, would you mind? So, listeners, would you mind listening
to today's dialogue one more time at its normal speed before we come back to you and talk more
about renting an apartment? Okay, that's fine. Bye. What happened? That's it. I least
is up. I have to move. What? Why? Can't you renew it? The owner apparently is selling this
place to make way for the construction of a parking lot. Well, I can help you pack. We should
start looking for a new place for you, ASAP. I think I might move in with my parents for a couple
of months until I can find something. You know how hard it is to find a decent place around here.
I'm going to have to put most of my stuff in storage for a while. Well, let me know if there's
anything I can do to help out. Actually, would you mind looking after my pet tarantula and snake
for a couple of weeks? Sure. All right. So, moving in. Now, you have different
stages in your life, right? When you move out, for example, you move out of your parents home
and you live on your own and then maybe, like in this case, you would move back in with your
parents. How do you see that happening? I see it very often. My brother just moved back in with my
parents. Really? Yeah, I think that it depends on the person. Honestly, I mean, especially because
the economy has really been suffering for the last year. A lot of people are doing this because,
you know, in a lot of cities in America, you can spend a thousand to two thousand dollars
a month for an apartment to rent. And that's a small apartment or a shared apartment. And so,
I understand this is a really, well, it's a better option now than it was before because everyone
wants independence, but sometimes you just can't afford it. It's actually, and it's a cultural
thing because some people move out of their parents home, maybe for college. It's very common
in the U.S. for to study in another city or another state, right? But then maybe coming back home
and moving in with your parents or in other cultures, maybe they don't move out at all,
maybe they only move out once they're married. Exactly. So, a lot of people in China, I think
in Shanghai, specifically, don't move out until, don't move out of their parents home
until they're going to get married. Right, but, well, it does make sense. And in many
big metropolis because, as you say, rent is expensive, living on your own is expensive. And,
well, you don't have anyone to share those costs with, like, gas, water, electricity,
even food, right? It's certainly more people. And not to mention, a little bit scary,
living on your own for the first time. It is a little bit scary. What about having somebody
move in with you, maybe a roommate or girlfriend boyfriend? Ooh, that's always the big stop
the big commitment. The big commitment and your in a relationship and you ask your partner to
move in with you. So, yeah, the step before marriage, I guess. There's nothing before that,
nothing before marriage. No. That's pretty much it. You tell me, I don't know. All right,
that's all the time we have for today. But be sure to come to our website, englishpod.com.
If you have any questions or any comments about this topic, we would be glad to have your
input on it. And we'll see you guys there. And if you have any suggestions for the step before the
step, before marriage, please let us know because we're in the dark on this one. So, until next time.
All right, bye, bye.